# Why now?

As I write this, it has been 445 days since I was last employed. But I have not been idle, and it's time I show that.

  When I lost my last job (C# development), I was extremely sad. But after a while, I started to think about what I enjoyed, what I didn't enjoy, and what I really want my career to be about.    
  I enjoy working with others. I enjoy programming challenges. I enjoy math. I enjoy databases. I enjoy automation.
First, in shock at being fired and not sure what to do, I began to apply for similar C# server development jobs, but didn't have much luck (spring 2020 was the height of covid, businesses were laying people off, there was _no_ hiring happening it felt like). After scrambling to be employed again and not having much luck, I slowed down, looked at my finances, unemployment, etc, and decided to take my time to find what I really wanted in my next job.

  A year or two beforehand, I had started watching the lectures on [fast.ai](course.fast.ai) and was just so amazed at the time. I hoped that I might even be able to do something  cool with all the trading data at my company. Unfortunately, I didn't have the time at work to try much of anything, and I didn't have the energy in my free time to continue the course. And as great as it is, just watching Jeremy's videos about deep learning is really insightful, but if you don't take his advice (the advice of many people, really) to _build_ things, _write_ things, and _do_ things, it probably won't stick. Or at least, it didn't stick for me -- but thankfully "fast.ai" was pretty easy to remember, now that I was unemployed and had time and energy to learn!

  So I went through the course again, and that time I stuck with it...mostly. I read other textbooks, watched tutorials, and created some small projects as I went. I talked with my girlfriend and her colleagues (data engineers & data scientists) about building my resume, transforming my strengths with my programming background to best apply for data-related positions. Nothing panned out though, whether it was because of covid, or nobody wanted to hire a data scientist without experience or a master's (or even a bachelor's...) and I went back to brushing up on my C# development to apply for more standard software developer positions (maybe it wasn't my true passion, but I still enjoy a lot of the work!).

## Anyways. Now. April 2021. 
  I continue to apply for C++/C# developer roles, and while my schedule is not dictated by working hours, I still find myself being drawn back to deep learning in my "off hours" (nighttime+weekends). I have some personal projects I really want to work on! (Future post incoming..) And now there's a whole real textbook made by the folks at fast.ai. I'm reading through it (and the corresponding online notebooks that are pretty much 1:1), determined for the 3rd time to be the charm. And this time, I intend to follow all of the recommendations, starting with the first - to get writing and start a blog!
